# Business Associate Agreement

1. <span class="header_2">Business Associate Obligations</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Obligations and Restrictions.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may not use or disclose PHI other than as described in this BAA, as permitted under the Privacy Rule, or as otherwise required by applicable law.
    2. <span class="header_3">Permitted Uses and Disclosures.</span>  Except as otherwise permitted or required in this BAA, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may only use or disclose PHI as reasonably necessary to provide the Services or as otherwise required by applicable law.
    3. <span class="header_3">Privacy and Information Security Program.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will maintain a privacy and information security program that takes steps to ensure that employees or agents of <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> comply with this BAA. This includes giving training to <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> workforce to ensure compliance with this BAA, implementing policies and practices that meet the current standards for the protection of PHI, and appointing Privacy and Security Officials as required under HIPAA.
    4. <span class="header_3">Safeguards.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will implement appropriate administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of PHI that it receives, creates, maintains, or transmits on behalf of <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span>. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will maintain appropriate technical and organizational safeguards to reduce the risk of misuse or disclosure of PHI except as permitted under this BAA. In addition, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will comply with its obligations under the Security Rule.
    5. <span class="header_3">Assessments.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> agrees to conduct regular assessments of its compliance with its obligations under the Privacy Rule and Security Rule. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will make available a summary of such assessments to <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> upon <span class="keyterms_link">Company's</span> reasonable request.
    6. <span class="header_3">Mitigation of Risks.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> agrees to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect that is known to <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> of a use or disclosure of PHI by <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> and to promptly communicate to <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> any actions taken pursuant to this paragraph.
    7. <span class="header_3">Subcontractors.</span>  Except as restricted by applicable <span class="keyterms_link">Limitations</span>, (a) <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may disclose PHI to a Subcontractor; and (b) may allow the Subcontractor to create, receive, maintain, or transmit PHI on its behalf. However, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> must first ensure that each Subcontractor executes a binding, written agreement requiring the Subcontractor to protect PHI under terms substantially similar to and no less stringent than this BAA. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will not be in compliance with this BAA if <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> knew of a pattern of activity or practice of a Subcontractor that constituted a material breach or violation of the Subcontractor’s obligations under any agreement between <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> and the Subcontractor. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will conduct appropriate due diligence on all Subcontractors.
    8. <span class="header_3">Books and Records to HHS.</span>  Upon request, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will make its books, records, and internal policies and procedures relating to the use and disclosure of PHI available to the Secretary of HHS for the purpose of determining <span class="keyterms_link">Company's</span> and <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> compliance with HIPAA.
    9. <span class="header_3">Audit of Books and Records.</span>  Upon reasonable request, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will make its books, records, and internal policies and procedures relating to its compliance with this BAA available to <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span>. However, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> is not required to provide any information or records that interfere with <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> confidentiality or proprietary rights or that would otherwise impact <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> compliance with its legal obligations.
    10. <span class="header_3">Individual Requests.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will take reasonable efforts to support <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> in completing requests related to individuals’ rights under HIPAA as related to the Services in a timely manner, but in no event will <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> response take more than ten business days. Examples of individual rights under HIPAA include the right to access PHI pursuant to 45 CFR §164.524, amend PHI pursuant to 45 CFR §164.526, and receive accounting of disclosures pursuant to 45 CFR §164.528. If relevant to the Services, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will maintain an accounting of disclosures it makes on <span class="keyterms_link">Company's</span> behalf as required under 45 CFR §164.528(a). Except as directed by <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> or required by law, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will not respond directly to any individual requests regarding their rights under HIPAA.
    11. <span class="header_3">Compliance with Covered Entity’s Obligations.</span>  To the extent that <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> carries out <span class="keyterms_link">Company's</span> obligations under the Privacy Rule, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will comply with the requirements of the relevant Privacy Rule regulations that apply to <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> in the performance of such obligations.
2. <span class="header_2">Company Obligations</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Notice of Privacy Practices.</span>  Upon request, <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> will provide <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> with its current notice of privacy practices adopted as required by the Privacy Rule. <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> will notify <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> if any limitations in its notice of privacy practices impact <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> use or disclosure of PHI under the BAA.
    2. <span class="header_3">Notice of Changes.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> will notify <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> in a timely manner of any changes to how <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> uses or discloses PHI to the extent that the changes impact how <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> uses or discloses PHI under the BAA.
    3. <span class="header_3">Notice of Restrictions.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> will notify <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> in a timely manner of any restrictions agreed upon with an individual or their legal representative to the extent that the restrictions may impact <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> use or disclosure of PHI under the BAA.
    4. <span class="header_3">Compliance with Laws.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> will only use and disclose PHI to <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> in accordance with its obligations under HIPAA and with applicable law.
3. <span class="header_2">Data Rights & Restrictions</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Offshoring PHI.</span>  Except as restricted by applicable <span class="keyterms_link">Limitations</span>, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> is permitted to use and disclose PHI outside of the United States to provide the Services.
    2. <span class="header_3">De-Identification.</span>  Except as restricted by applicable <span class="keyterms_link">Limitations</span>, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may de-identify PHI.
    3. <span class="header_3">Aggregation.</span>  Except as restricted by applicable <span class="keyterms_link">Limitations</span>, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may aggregate PHI for its own purposes.
4. <span class="header_2">Breach Notification</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Breach Reporting.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will report to <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> within the <span class="keyterms_link">Breach Notification Period</span> each use or disclosure of PHI not permitted under this BAA of which <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> becomes aware, including breaches of unsecured PHI as required by §164.410 of HIPAA and any Security Incident involving PHI. In addition, each party will comply with its notification obligations under HIPAA regarding a Security Incident involving PHI.
    2. <span class="header_3">Unsuccessful Attempts.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> agrees that this section will be deemed as sufficient notice under Section 4.1 if <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> periodically receives unsuccessful attempts for unauthorized access to, use of, or disclosure of PHI, or for general interference with the general operation of <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> products and services.
    3. <span class="header_3">Security Incident Reimbursement.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will reimburse <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> for costs reasonably associated with a Security Incident caused by <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> or one of its Subcontractors.
    4. <span class="header_3">Confidentiality.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will not disclose information related to a Security Incident except as required by applicable law.
5. <span class="header_2">Term & Termination</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Term.</span>  This BAA will start on the <span class="keyterms_link">BAA Effective Date</span> and will continue in effect until the later of when all obligations of the parties have been met under this BAA or when the <span class="keyterms_link">Agreement</span> ends or expires.
    2. <span class="header_3">Termination.</span>  Either party may terminate this BAA if the other party fails to cure a material breach of the BAA within 30 days after receiving notice of the breach. A material breach of the BAA will be deemed a material breach of the <span class="keyterms_link">Agreement</span>.
    3. <span class="header_3">Effect of Termination.</span>
        a. Upon any expiration or termination of this BAA, or earlier if directed by <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span>, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will either return or destroy, at <span class="keyterms_link">Company's</span> discretion and according to <span class="keyterms_link">Company's</span> instructions, all PHI maintained in any form by <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span>, its agents, or its Subcontractors.
        b. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may not retain any copies of PHI unless directed to do so by <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span>. However, if neither return nor destruction are feasible, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may retain PHI as long as <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> continues to comply with all provisions of this BAA for the time it retains PHI and limits the use or disclosure of retained PHI to those purposes that made the return or destruction of PHI infeasible.
6. <span class="header_2">Definitions</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Defining Variables.</span> Variables have the meanings or descriptions given on the Cover Page. However, if the Cover Page omits or does not define a Variable, the default meaning will be "none" or "not applicable" and the correlating clause, sentence, or section does not apply to the BAA.
    2. **"BAA"** means the Cover Page between <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> and <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> that incorporates these BAA Standard Terms and any policies and documents referenced in or attached to the Cover Page.
    3. **"BAA Standard Terms"** means these Common Paper BAA Standard Terms Version 1.0, which are posted at <https://commonpaper.com/standards/business-associate-agreement/1.0>.
    4. **"Breach"** has the meaning given to it under HIPAA.
    5. **"Business Associate"** has the meaning given to it under HIPAA.
    6. **"Covered Entity"** has the meaning given to it under HIPAA.
    7. **"Cover Page"** means a document that is signed by the parties, identifies <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> and <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span>, incorporates these BAA Standard Terms, and includes definitions or descriptions for Variables.
    8. **"Designated Record Set"** has the meaning given to it under HIPAA.
    9. **"HHS"** means the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
    10. **"HIPAA"** means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the rules and regulations thereunder, as amended from time to time.
    11. **"Privacy and Security Officials"** has the meaning given to it under HIPAA.
    12. **"Privacy Rule"** means the federal privacy regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA, codified at 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164 (Subparts A & E).
    13. **"Protected Health Information"** or **"PHI"** has the meaning given to it under HIPAA.
    14. **"Security Incident"** has the meaning given to it under HIPAA.
    15. **"Security Rule"** means the federal security regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA, codified at 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164 (Subparts A & C).
    16. **"Services"** means the products and services provided by <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> under the <span class="keyterms_link">Agreement</span>.
    17. **"Subcontractor"** means a third party to whom <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> provides PHI under this BAA.
    18. **"Variable"** means a word or phrase in the BAA Standard Terms that is highlighted and capitalized, such as <span class="keyterms_link">Limitations</span>.
